FREEBSD INSTALLATION

First, configure any hardware RAID controllers in the machine not to act 
in a RAID capacity--that is, to just act as ATA or SCSI controllers.

Boot the machine from the installation disc, choose your country 
(assumed to be "United States"), then choose the "Custom" installation. 
Navigate down to "Partition" and select it. You may ignore any warnings 
about the physical geometry of disks--they stem from the fact that hard 
drive vendors these days do not care to provide proper physical 
geometries as modern hardware tends to use Logical Block Addressing to 
do disk I/O.

Choose a drive to install the operating system onto. The first one 
is usually a good choice. Delete any partitions you may have with the 
"d" key, then, press "c" to create one. Press "OK" to accept the default 
size, which should be all available space, then accept the default 
partition type of 165. Press "q" and select the "Standard" option to 
install an MBR. You should now be back at the custom installation menu. 
Proceed to the "Label" submenu.

Press "c" and accept the default size, then choose the default of "FS", 
and a mount point of "/". Press the down arrow so that the newly-created 
partition is selected, then press the "s" key. This will enable 
soft-updates on the partition--an add-on to the UFS filesystem that 
increases performance and helps maintain filesystem consistency across 
system failures (http://www.mckusick.com/softdep/). Press "q" to return 
to the custom installation menu and proceed to the "Distributions" 
submenu.

Select the "Custom" option all the way at the bottom, then select the 
"base", "kernels" (check "GENERIC" in the "kernels" distribution), "man" 
and "ports"  distributions. Select "OK", and "OK" again to return to the
custom installation menu and proceed to the "Media" submenu.

Select "CD/DVD". You will find yourself at the custom installation menu. 
Select "Commit", press "Yes", and "Yes" again when confronted by the 
swap device warning. The installer will now perform partitioning, 
filesystem creation, and file copying. This may take a few minutes.

The installer will then prompt you for additional options. You may use 
the opportunity to configure the network and any services you may wish 
to start at boot time. It should be noted that all of this can be 
configured at a later time using the rc.d(8) system 
(http://www.freebsd.org/doc/en/books/handbook/configtuning-rcd.html). 
When done, exit the installer, reboot the system, and boot it from the 
drive you instaleld FreeBSD onto.

I prefer to have swap files as opposed to swap partitions due to the 
relatively static nature of partitions and the dynamic nature of 
general-purpose computers. Swap file creation is documented at 
http://www.freebsd.org/doc/en/books/handbook/adding-swap-space.html.

I also favor the GEOM Mirror software RAID-1 subsystem over hardware 
RAID-1 due to its backward compatability with the filesystems that 
reside on it (for example, you can mount any member of a GEOM Mirror 
set with a UFS filesystem on it as a UFS filesystem), portability (the 
(set does not depend on hardware to operate), and simplicity (metadata
is self-contained on the last sector of each member of the set).
Documentation for creating a GEOM Mirror set can be found at 
http://www.onlamp.com/pub/a/bsd/2005/11/10/FreeBSD_Basics.html.
